ARROW-17789: [Java][Docs] Update Java Dataset documentation with latest changes (#14382)
apache/arrow: docs/source/java/dataset.rst

possible data sources such as from inter-process communication or from other
network locations, etc.

.. contents::

Getting Started
===============

Currently supported file formats are:

- Apache Arrow (`.arrow`)
- Apache ORC (`.orc`)
- Apache Parquet (`.parquet`)
- Comma-Separated Values (`.csv`)

Below shows a simplest example of using Dataset to query a Parquet file in Java:

.. code-block:: Java

    // read data from file /opt/example.parquet
    String uri = "file:/opt/example.parquet";
    try (
        BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator();
        DatasetFactory datasetFactory = new FileSystemDatasetFactory(
                allocator, NativeMemoryPool.getDefault(),
                FileFormat.PARQUET, uri);
        Dataset dataset = datasetFactory.finish();

>         Scanner scanner = dataset.newScan(options);

Reviewer: The variable `options` doesn't seem to be declared or initialized anywhere

Reviewer: I see you discuss options below. Maybe add a comment here to that effect if you're not going to initialize it.

Author: Thanks to catch that, I just added that `options` part

possible data sources such as from inter-process communication or from other
network locations, etc.

.. contents::

Getting Started
===============

Currently supported file formats are:

> - Apache Arrow (`.arrow`)

Author: Changed

- Apache ORC (`.orc`)
- Apache Parquet (`.parquet`)
- Comma-Separated Values (`.csv`)

Below shows a simplest example of using Dataset to query a Parquet file in Java:

.. code-block:: Java

    // read data from file /opt/example.parquet
    String uri = "file:/opt/example.parquet";

>     ScanOptions options = new ScanOptions(/*batchSize*/ 5);

Author: Changed

    try (

>         BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator();

Author: Changed

    aware container ``VectorSchemaRoot`` by which user could be able to access
    decoded data conveniently in Java.

>     The ``ScanOptions`` `batchSize` argument takes effect only if it is set to a value

Author: Changed

Native Object Resource Management
=================================
As another result of relying on JNI, all components related to
``FileSystemDataset`` should be closed manually or use try-with-resources to
release the corresponding native objects after using. For example:

.. code-block:: Java

    String uri = "file:/opt/example.parquet";
    ScanOptions options = new ScanOptions(/*batchSize*/ 32768);
    try (
        BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator();
        DatasetFactory factory = new FileSystemDatasetFactory(
                allocator, NativeMemoryPool.getDefault(),
                FileFormat.PARQUET, uri);
        Dataset dataset = factory.finish();
        Scanner scanner = dataset.newScan(options)
    ) {

        // do something

    } catch (Exception e) {
        e.printStackTrace();
    }

If user forgets to close them then native object leakage might be caused.

> Development Guidelines

Reviewer 2: IMO, "Development Guidelines" isn't a great name. Maybe this section can be combined with the one above, and renamed "Usage Notes" or something similar? And then we can have subheadings for "Native Object Resource Management" and "Batch Sizes".

Author: Make sense, changed

======================

> * Related to the note about ScanOptions batchSize argument: Let's try to read a Parquet file with gzip compression and 3 row groups:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The ``batchSize`` argument of ``ScanOptions`` is a limit on the size of an individual batch.

  For example, let's try to read a Parquet file with gzip compression and 3 row groups:
```

Can we remove the list from this? It makes the formatting weird and there's only one item here anyways.

    .. code-block::

       # Let configure ScanOptions as:
       ScanOptions options = new ScanOptions(/*batchSize*/ 32768);

       $ parquet-tools meta data4_3rg_gzip.parquet
       file schema: schema
       age:         OPTIONAL INT64 R:0 D:1
       name:        OPTIONAL BINARY L:STRING R:0 D:1
       row group 1: RC:4 TS:182 OFFSET:4
       row group 2: RC:4 TS:190 OFFSET:420
       row group 3: RC:3 TS:179 OFFSET:838

>     In this case, we are configuring ScanOptions batchSize argument limit to
>     32768, it's greater than current 4 rows read on the file, then 4 is
>     used as a limit on the program execution instead of 32768 limit requested.
> 
>     In case the file had more than 32768 rows, then it would get split into
>     blocks of 32768 rows or less.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Here, we set the batchSize in ScanOptions to 32768. Because that's greater
    than the number of rows in the next batch, which is 4 rows because the first
    row group has only 4 rows, then the program gets only 4 rows. The scanner
    will not combine smaller batches to reach the limit, but it will split
    large batches to stay under the limit. So in the case the row group had more
    than 32768 rows, it would get split into blocks of 32768 rows or less.
```

    AutoCloseables.close(factory, dataset, scanner);

If user forgets to close them then native object leakage might be caused.

Development Guidelines
======================

* Related to the note about ScanOptions batchSize argument: Let's try to read a Parquet file with gzip compression and 3 row groups:

    .. code-block::

       # Let configure ScanOptions as:
       ScanOptions options = new ScanOptions(/*batchSize*/ 32768);

       $ parquet-tools meta data4_3rg_gzip.parquet
       file schema: schema
       age:         OPTIONAL INT64 R:0 D:1
       name:        OPTIONAL BINARY L:STRING R:0 D:1
       row group 1: RC:4 TS:182 OFFSET:4
       row group 2: RC:4 TS:190 OFFSET:420
       row group 3: RC:3 TS:179 OFFSET:838

    In this case, we are configuring ScanOptions batchSize argument equals to
    32768 rows, it's greater than 04 rows used on the file, then 04 rows is
    used on the program execution instead of 32768 rows requested.

> * Arrow Java Dataset offer native functionalities consuming native artifacts such as:

Reviewer: I don't understand what this section is telling me. It's a pretty big context switch to go from configuring scan options to building jars. Maybe additional description would be helpful

Author: Yes, this is more low level detail, let me delete that part because that ares JNI libs running under the hood.

    AutoCloseables.close(factory, dataset, scanner);

If user forgets to close them then native object leakage might be caused.

Development Guidelines
======================

* Related to the note about ScanOptions batchSize argument: Let's try to read a Parquet file with gzip compression and 3 row groups:

    .. code-block::

       # Let configure ScanOptions as:
       ScanOptions options = new ScanOptions(/*batchSize*/ 32768);

       $ parquet-tools meta data4_3rg_gzip.parquet
       file schema: schema
       age:         OPTIONAL INT64 R:0 D:1
       name:        OPTIONAL BINARY L:STRING R:0 D:1
       row group 1: RC:4 TS:182 OFFSET:4
       row group 2: RC:4 TS:190 OFFSET:420
       row group 3: RC:3 TS:179 OFFSET:838

>     In this case, we are configuring ScanOptions batchSize argument equals to

Author: Please could you help me to understand your point. It is how it is working (i.e. every row group has 4 rows or less, this value are compared with the batchSize internally). You are proposing to change the example? change the paragraph?

>     In this case, we are configuring ScanOptions batchSize argument equals to

Reviewer 2: 32768 isn't a request for rows, it's a limit. Since the file only has 4 rows in in the first row group, the actual batch size will be 4. If the file had more than 32768 rows, then it would get split into blocks of 32768 rows or less.

>     In this case, we are configuring ScanOptions batchSize argument equals to

Author: Thank you for that detail, let me add that detail
